quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk

this annual report on form 10-k (“form 10-k”) contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, that involve risks and uncertainties. many of the forward-looking statements are located in part i, item 1 of this form 10-k under the heading “business” and part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k under the heading “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.” forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. for example, statements in this form 10-k regarding the potential future impact of macroeconomic conditions on the company’s business and results of operations are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as “future,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “predicts,” “will,” “would,” “could,” “can,” “may,” and similar terms. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the company’s actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in part i, item 1a of this form 10-k under the heading “risk factors.” the company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law.

the company is committed to protecting its team members everywhere it operates. the company identifies potential workplace risks in order to develop measures to mitigate possible hazards. the company supports employees with general safety, security and crisis management training, and by putting specific programs in place for those working in potentially high-hazard environments. additionally, the company works to protect the safety and security of its team members, visitors and customers through its global security team.

the company’s business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price can be affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including those described below. when any one or more of these risks materialize from time to time, the company’s business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price can be materially and adversely affected.

because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting the company’s results of operations and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. this discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements.

adverse economic conditions can also lead to increased credit and collectibility risk on the company’s trade receivables; the failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions; limitations on the company’s ability to issue new debt; reduced liquidity; and declines in the fair values of the company’s financial instruments. these and other impacts can materially adversely affect the company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price.

many of the company’s operations and facilities, as well as critical business operations of the company’s suppliers and contract manufacturers, are in locations that are prone to earthquakes and other natural disasters. in addition, such operations and facilities are subject to the risk of interruption by fire, power shortages, nuclear power plant accidents and other industrial accidents, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, ransomware and other cybersecurity attacks, labor disputes, public health issues, including pandemics such as the covid-19 pandemic, and other events beyond the company’s control. global climate change is resulting in certain types of natural disasters, such as droughts, floods, hurricanes and wildfires, occurring more frequently or with more intense effects. such events can make it difficult or impossible for the company to manufacture and deliver products to its customers, create delays and inefficiencies in the company’s supply and manufacturing chain, and result in slowdowns and outages to the company’s service offerings, and negatively impact consumer spending and demand in affected areas. following an interruption to its business, the company can require substantial recovery time, experience significant expenditures to resume operations, and lose significant sales. because the company relies on single or limited sources for the supply and manufacture of many critical components, a business interruption affecting such sources would exacerbate any negative consequences to the company.

the company’s operations are also subject to the risks of industrial accidents at its suppliers and contract manufacturers. while the company’s suppliers are required to maintain safe working environments and operations, an industrial accident could occur and could result in serious injuries or loss of life, disruption to the company’s business, and harm to the company’s reputation. major public health issues, including pandemics such as the covid-19 pandemic, have adversely affected, and could in the future materially adversely affect, the company due to their impact on the global economy and demand for consumer products; the imposition of protective public safety measures, such as stringent employee travel restrictions and limitations on freight services and the movement of products between regions; and disruptions in the company’s operations, supply chain and sales and distribution channels, resulting in interruptions to the supply of current products and offering of existing services, and delays in production ramps of new products and development of new services.

due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the markets and industries in which the company competes, the company must continually introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and services, effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products and services, and successfully manage the transition to these new and upgraded products and services. the success of new product and service introductions depends on a number of factors, including timely and successful development, market acceptance, the company’s ability to manage the risks associated with new technologies and production ramp-up issues, the availability of application software for the company’s products, the effective management of purchase commitments and inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, the availability of products in appropriate quantities and at expected costs to meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products and services may have quality or other defects or deficiencies. there can be no assurance the company will successfully manage future introductions and transitions of products and services.

substantially all of the company’s manufacturing is performed in whole or in part by outsourcing partners located primarily in china mainland, india, japan, south korea, taiwan and vietnam, and a significant concentration of this manufacturing is currently performed by a small number of outsourcing partners, often in single locations. changes or additions to the company’s supply chain require considerable time and resources and involve significant risks and uncertainties. the company has also outsourced much of its transportation and logistics management. while these arrangements can lower operating costs, they also reduce the company’s direct control over production and distribution. such diminished control has from time to time and may in the future have an adverse effect on the quality or quantity of products manufactured or services provided, or adversely affect the company’s flexibility to respond to changing conditions. although arrangements with these partners may contain provisions for product defect expense reimbursement, the company generally remains responsible to the consumer for warranty and out-of-warranty service in the event of product defects and experiences unanticipated product defect liabilities from time to time. while the company relies on its partners to adhere to its supplier code of conduct, violations of the supplier code of conduct occur from time to time and can materially adversely affect the company’s business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.

because the company currently obtains certain components from single or limited sources, the company is subject to significant supply and pricing risks. many components, including those that are available from multiple sources, are at times subject to industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations that can materially adversely affect the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. for example, the global semiconductor industry has in the past experienced high demand and shortages of supply, which adversely affected the company’s ability to obtain sufficient quantities of components and products on commercially reasonable terms or at all. such disruptions could occur in the future. while the company has entered into agreements for the supply of many components, there can be no assurance the company will be able to extend or renew these agreements on similar terms, or at all. component suppliers may suffer from poor financial conditions, which can lead to business failure for the supplier or consolidation within a particular industry, further limiting the company’s ability to obtain sufficient quantities of components on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the effects of global or regional economic conditions on the company’s suppliers, described in “

therefore, the company remains subject to significant risks of supply shortages and price increases that can materially adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition.

the company offers complex hardware and software products and services that can be affected by design and manufacturing defects. sophisticated operating system software and applications, such as those offered by the company, often have issues that can unexpectedly interfere with the intended operation of hardware or software products and services. defects can also exist in components and products the company purchases from third parties. component defects could make the company’s products unsafe and create a risk of environmental or property damage and personal injury. these risks may increase as the company’s products are introduced into specialized applications, including health. in addition, the company’s service offerings can have quality issues and from time to time experience outages, service slowdowns or errors. as a result, from time to time the company’s services have not performed as anticipated and may not meet customer expectations. there can be no assurance the company will be able to detect and fix all issues and defects in the hardware, software and services it offers. failure to do so can result in widespread technical and performance issues affecting the company’s products and services. in addition, the company can be exposed to product liability claims, recalls, product replacements or modifications, write-offs of inventory, property, plant and equipment or intangible assets, and significant warranty and other expenses, including litigation costs and regulatory fines. quality problems can also adversely affect the experience for users of the company’s products and services, and result in harm to the company’s reputation, loss of competitive advantage, poor market acceptance, reduced demand for products and services, delay in new product and service introductions and lost sales.

the company is exposed to the risk of write-downs on the value of its inventory and other assets, in addition to purchase commitment cancellation risk.

the company orders components for its products and builds inventory in advance of product announcements and shipments. manufacturing purchase obligations cover the company’s forecasted component and manufacturing requirements, typically for periods up to 150 days. because the company’s markets are volatile, competitive and subject to rapid technology and price changes, there is a risk the company will forecast incorrectly and order or produce excess or insufficient amounts of components or products, or not fully utilize firm purchase commitments.

although malicious attacks perpetrated to gain access to confidential information, including personal information, affect many companies across various industries, the company is at a relatively greater risk of being targeted because of its high profile and the value of the confidential information it creates, owns, manages, stores and processes.

while the company maintains insurance coverage that is intended to address certain aspects of data security risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise.

investment in new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt the company’s ongoing business, present risks not originally contemplated and materially adversely affect the company’s business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.

the company has invested, and in the future may invest, in new business strategies or acquisitions. such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, greater-than-expected liabilities and expenses, economic, political, legal and regulatory challenges associated with operating in new businesses, regions or countries, inadequate return on capital, potential impairment of tangible and intangible assets, and significant write-offs. investment and acquisition transactions are exposed to additional risks, including failing to obtain required regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all, or the imposition of onerous conditions that could delay or prevent the company from completing a transaction or otherwise limit the company’s ability to fully realize the anticipated benefits of a transaction. these new ventures are inherently risky and may not be successful. the failure of any significant investment could materially adversely affect the company’s business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.

the company’s retail stores are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties.